Doctrine and Covenants 104
18 Therefore, if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made,
and impart not his portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto
the poor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in
hell, being in torment.

      - As I was driving today, it occured to me how much I have been given, and the remarkable position that I have in life.
      - I was born to parents who taught me to read and learn, I was encouraged and taught to expand my learning since I was a child, I was given the resources to go to college, a job to learn new skills, and the financial resources to kickstart a successful career.
      - I've been given more than most. I've been given abundantly. What mush I do to share with the poor and the needy?

Opportunities to Do Good
Henry B. Eyring
April 2011 Conference
His way of helping has at times been called living the law of
consecration. In another period His way was called the united order.
In our time it is called the Church welfare program.

Welfare Services: The Gospel in Action
Spencer W. Kimball
October 1977 Conference
Consecration is the giving of one’s time, talents, and means to care for those in
need﻿—whether spiritually or temporally﻿—and in building the Lord’s
kingdom. In Welfare Services, members consecrate as they labor on
production projects donate materials to Deseret Industries, share
their professional talents, give a generous fast offering, and respond
to ward and quorum service projects. They consecrate their time in
their home or visiting teaching. We consecrate when we give of
ourselves. (See Ensign, June 1976, pp. 3–6.)

      - One way that I can serve the poor and live my covenants is to donate to the church welfare program. I can be dedicated to my fast offerings and give generously of what I have.
      - Additionally, I can dedicate my time to helping the poor.


The Law of the Fast: A Personal Responsibility to Care for the Poor and Needy
Dean M. Davies
October 2014 Conference
Caring for the poor and needy is a fundamental gospel doctrine and an
essential element in the eternal plan of salvation.
...
Central to the Lord’s plan for caring for the poor and needy is the
law of the fast. “The Lord has established the law of the fast and
fast offerings to bless His people and to provide a way for them to
serve those in need.”

Deuteronomy 15
11 For the poor shall never cease out of the land: therefore I command
thee, saying, Thou shalt open thine hand wide unto thy brother, to thy
poor, and to thy needy, in thy land.

Isaiah 58
6 Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of
wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go
free, and that ye break every yoke?

7 Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the
poor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, that
thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?
...
10 And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted
soul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as
the noon day:

      - I've always struggled with fasting. It's never been easy for me to remember and to have a good attitude about it.
      - But, my focus was never on caring for the poor. I fasted for the blessings of heaven to come down upon me or those I knew, but I never fasted to 'deal thy bread to the hungry'.
