Doctrine-and-Covenants 59:21 And in nothing doth man offend God, or
against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand
in all things, and obey not his commandments.


Luke 17
“And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through
the midst of Samaria and Galilee.

“And as he entered into a certain village, there [he met] ten men that
were lepers, which stood afar off:

“And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy
on us.

“And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the
priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed.

“And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and
with a loud voice glorified God,

“And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was
a Samaritan.

“And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? but where are
the nine?

“There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this
stranger.

“And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee
whole.”

      Christ blessed all of the lepers equally. But their response was not the same.
      The Samaritan understood what he had been given, knew where the source of his blessings were.


This is a wonderful time to be on earth. While there is much that is
wrong in the world today, there are many things that are right and
good. There are marriages that make it, parents who love their
children and sacrifice for them, friends who care about us and help
us, teachers who teach. Our lives are blessed in countless ways.

      I love this. I totally agree.



2-Timothy 3:2 For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous,
boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful,
unholy,

      -I think it is interesting that being unthankful is up there with blasphemy
      -It seems that being grateful has a deeper impact in our lives than we think

1-Timothy 4:4 For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be
refused, if it be received with thanksgiving:

Psalms 107:1 O give thanks unto the LORD, for he is good: for his
mercy endureth for ever.

Psalms 30:12 To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not
be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.

Doctrine-and-Covenants 78:19 And he who receiveth all things with
thankfulness shall be made glorious; and the things of this earth
shall be added unto him, even an hundred fold, yea, more.


Doctrine-and-Covenants 59
15 And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful
hearts and countenances, not with much laughter, for this is sin, but
with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance--

16 Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this, the fulness of the earth is
yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that
which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth;

      -Those are huge promises.
      -Gratitude usually isn't at the front of my mind when I think of commandments.
      But the Lord has conditioned, like he does all his commandments, incredible
      blessings for obedience to the law of gratitude.



Joseph-Smith-History
Man may deceive his fellow-men, deception may follow deception, and the
children of the wicked one may have power to seduce the foolish and
untaught, till naught but fiction feeds the many, and the fruit of
falsehood carries in its current the giddy to the grave; but one touch
with the finger of his love, yes, one ray of glory from the upper
world, or one word from the mouth of the Savior, from the bosom of
eternity, strikes it all into insignificance, and blots it forever
from the mind.
...
I shall ever look upon this expression of the Savior's goodness with wonder and thanksgiving
while I am permitted to tarry; and in those mansions where perfection dwells
and sin never comes, I hope to adore in that day which shall never
cease.

          - The Lord... is more than anything I currently understand.
          - I cannot fathom his perfection in all of His glory.
          - He gives me, an ungrateful child, opportunity after opportunity. He loves me when I am not deserving of His love.
          - Thank you God, for who thou art. For they perfected state, and thy perfect tender kindness. I've shown that I am in desperate need of forgiveness and mercy, over and over.
