    Come, Join with Us
    Dieter F. Uchtdorf
    October 2013 Conference
If you expect to find perfect people here, you will be disappointed.
But if you seek the pure doctrine of Christ, the word of God “which
healeth the wounded soul,”9 and the sanctifying influence of the Holy
Ghost, then here you will find them. In this age of waning faith﻿—in
this age when so many feel distanced from heaven’s embrace﻿—here you
will find a people who yearn to know and draw closer to their Savior
by serving God and fellowmen, just like you. Come, join with us!
...
I plead with all who hear or read these words: Come, join with us.
Come heed the call of the gentle Christ.


    Whatsoever He Saith unto You, Do It
    L. Whitney Clayton
    April 2017 Conference
Over time, simple habits of belief lead to
miraculous results. They transform our faith from a seedling into a
dynamic power for good in our lives. Then, when challenges come our
way, our rootedness in Christ provides steadfastness for our souls.
God shores up our weaknesses, increases our joys, and causes “all
things [to] work together for [our] good.”



    Holy Scriptures: The Power of God unto Our Salvation
    Robert D. Hales
    October 2006 Conference
If you have not heard His voice speaking to you lately, return with
new eyes and new ears to the scriptures. They are our spiritual
lifeline. Behind the darkness of the Iron Curtain, the Saints survived
because they heard His voice through the scriptures. In other parts of
the world, when members couldn’t attend Church for a time, they
continued to worship God because they heard His voice through the
scriptures. Throughout all the wars of the past century and the
conflicts that rage today, Latter-day Saints survive because they hear
His voice through the scriptures. For the Lord has said, “The
scriptures shall be given … to the salvation of mine own elect; for
they will hear my voice, and shall see me, and shall not be asleep,
and shall abide the day of my coming; for they shall be purified, even
as I am pure.” (Doctrine and Covenants 35:21)


Saints Volume 1 Chapter 22
But with faith in the Lord’s promises, Parley had headed northeast, traveling by stagecoach over muddy roads. When he reached Niagara Falls and crossed into Canada, he had set off on foot until he reached Hamilton. Thoughts of home and the immensity of his mission soon overwhelmed him, and he yearned to know how he was supposed to exercise faith in a blessing when its promises seemed so far out of reach.

“Try the Lord,” the Spirit suddenly whispered to him, “and see if anything is too hard for Him.”10


Joseph Fielding Smith, as quoted by President Hinckley April 1996 General Conference
“I was very much oppressed, once, [when I was] on a mission. I was
almost naked and entirely friendless, except the friendship of a poor,
benighted … people. I felt as if I was so debased in my condition of
poverty, lack of intelligence and knowledge, just a boy, that I hardly
dared look a … man in the face.

“While in that condition I dreamed [one night] that I was on a
journey, and I was impressed that I ought to hurry﻿—hurry with all my
might, for fear I might be too late. I rushed on my way as fast as I
possibly could, and I was only conscious of having just a little
bundle, a handkerchief with a small bundle wrapped in it. I did not
realize just what it was, when I was hurrying as fast as I could; but
finally I came to a wonderful mansion. … I thought I knew that was my
destination. As I passed towards it, as fast as I could, I saw a
notice, ‘Bath.’ I turned aside quickly and went into the bath and
washed myself clean. I opened up this little bundle that I had, and
there was a pair of white, clean garments, a thing I had not seen for
a long time, because the people I was with did not think very much of
making things exceedingly clean. But my garments were clean, and I put
them on. Then I rushed to what appeared to be a great opening, or
door. I knocked and the door opened, and the man who stood there was
the Prophet Joseph Smith. He looked at me a little reprovingly, and
the first words he said: ‘Joseph, you are late.’ Yet I took confidence
and replied:

“‘Yes, but I am clean﻿—I am clean!’

“He clasped my hand and drew me in, then closed the great door. I felt
his hand just as tangible as I ever felt the hand of man. I knew him,
and when I entered I saw my father, and Brigham [Young] and Heber [C.
Kimball], and Willard [Richards], and other good men that I had known,
standing in a row. I looked as if it were across this valley, and it
seemed to be filled with a vast multitude of people, but on the stage
were all the people that I had known. My mother was there, and she sat
with a child in her lap; and I could name over as many as I remember
of their names, who sat there, who seemed to be among the chosen,
among the exalted. …

“[When I had this dream] I was alone on a mat, away up in the
mountains of Hawaii﻿—no one was with me. But in this vision I pressed
my hand up against the Prophet, and I saw a smile cross his
countenance. …

“When I awoke that morning I was a man, although only a boy. There was
not anything in the world that I feared [after that]. I could meet any
man or woman or child and look them in the face, feeling in my soul
that I was a man every whit. That vision, that manifestation and
witness that I enjoyed at that time has made me what I am, if I am
anything that is good, or clean, or upright before the Lord, if there
is anything good in me. That has helped me out in every trial and
through every difficulty” (Gospel Doctrine, 5th ed. [1939], 542–43).


The Purifying Power of Gethsemane
Bruce R. McConkie
April 1985 Conference
I am one of his witnesses, and in a coming day I shall feel the nail
marks in his hands and in his feet and shall wet his feet with my
tears.

But I shall not know any better then than I know now that he is God’s
Almighty Son, that he is our Savior and Redeemer, and that salvation
comes in and through his atoning blood and in no other way.



Psalms 23:1 The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.

      -This really impacted me today. What beautiful simplicity, the Lord is my shepherd.
      -I shall not want. He will provide for me, He will do all for me. If I let him.
      -I love Him. And I don't want to run from His love and grace.
