Let God Prevail
Russell M. Nelson
October 2020 Conference

Jacob, the grandson of Abraham. At the place Jacob named Peniel (which
means “the face of God”),6 Jacob wrestled with a serious challenge.
His agency was tested. Through this wrestle, Jacob proved what was
most important to him. He demonstrated that he was willing to let God
prevail in his life. In response, God changed Jacob’s name to Israel,7
meaning “let God prevail.” God then promised Israel that all the
blessings that had been pronounced upon Abraham’s head would also be
his.8

Genesis 32:28 And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for
as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed.

THE INVITATION
*  As you study your scriptures during the next six months, I encourage
*  you to make a list of all that the Lord has promised He will do for
*  covenant Israel. I think you will be astounded! Ponder these promises.
*  Talk about them with your family and friends. Then live and watch for
*  these promises to be fulfilled in your own life.


Hebrews 8 (see also Jeremiah 31)
10 For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel
after those days, saith the Lord; I will put my laws into their mind,
and write them in their hearts: and I will be to them a God, and they
shall be to me a people:

11 And they shall not teach every man his neighbour, and every man his
brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me, from the least
to the greatest.

12 For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and
their iniquities will I remember no more.

      - Covenant Israel will have His laws in their minds and in their hearts
      - Israel will be God's people, and He will be their God
      - All shall know God across the world
      - God will be merciful to Israel's sins


Romans 9
4 Who are Israelites; to whom pertaineth the adoption, and the glory,
and the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the service of God,
and the promises;
...
26 And it shall come to pass, that in the place where it was said unto
them, Ye are not my people; there shall they be called the children of
the living God.



Isaiah 14
1 For the LORD will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose Israel, and
set them in their own land: and the strangers shall be joined with
them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.

2 And the people shall take them, and bring them to their place: and the
house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the LORD for
servants and handmaids: and they shall take them captives, whose
captives they were; and they shall rule over their oppressors.

3 And it shall come to pass in the day that the LORD shall give thee
rest from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hard bondage
wherein thou wast made to serve,

      - Set in their own land
      - Chosen
      - Rule over their oppressors
      - Rest from sorrow
      - Rest from fear
      - Rest from hard bondage


Ezekiel 11
16 Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Although I have cast them far
off among the heathen, and although I have scattered them among the
countries, yet will I be to them as a little sanctuary in the
countries where they shall come.

17 Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even gather you from
the people, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have been
scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.
...
19 And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within
you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give
them an heart of flesh:

20 That they may walk in my statutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do
them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.

      - God will be a 'little sanctuary' wherever Israel comes from
      - Israel is promised to be gathered
      - One heart. Unity
      - A new Spirit
      - Soften/Replace heart of stone with a heart of flesh. A rebirth of heart and soul.
      - "They shall be my people, and I will be their God" ***


3 Nephi 22 (See Isaiah 54?)
7 For a small moment have I forsaken thee, but with great mercies will I
gather thee.

8 In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment, but with
everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the Lord thy
Redeemer.
