January 31, 2021

It is my day too. The telephone is silent. I can think, read,
study, walk, or do nothing. It is an oasis of quiet.
... by accepting its difficulties for the sake of the results, can have what the Sabbath offers.
This is My God
Herman Wouk

          - Recently I enrolled in a course on Judaism, and am reading this book
            by Herman Wouk.
          - His description of the Sabbath was inspiring to me. The Jewish Shabat
            is very against the grain of modern life, and yet he finds great
            solace and peace in it.
          - I want my Sabbath experience to be more like that. I want to look forward
            to the Sabbath as a day of rest and peace. I think that I need that
            in my life. Raising Gwen has been difficult and I don't want to burn
            out


2 And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he
rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.
3 And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that in it
he had rested from all his work which God created and made.
Genesis 2

          - The Sabbath day comes back to creation. It's a reminder of God's plan,
            that even He rested.
          - The command to keep the sabbath day holy is not arbitrary or unique
            to our dispensation. It is a principle that has been in effect since
            the beginning


9 Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work:
10 But the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou
shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy
manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that
is within thy gates:
11 For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that
in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the LORD blessed the
sabbath day, and hallowed it.
Exodus 20

          - Verse 11 is the motivation behind the command to keep the sabbath day holy
          - "If God rested from his mighty labors of creation, then surely the things
            you are working can wait"


13 If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thy pleasure
on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the LORD,
honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor
finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words:
14 Then shalt thou delight thyself in the LORD; and I will cause thee to
ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the
heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken
it.
Isaiah 58

          - My family is going to have a lot of sabbath days. Gwen is 8 months old, so
            about 904 Sabbath days until she turns 18.
          - How will I make the sabbath a delight for my family? The best that I can
            do is truly love and delight in the Sabbath.
          - This seems to be what Herman Wouk was describing. The blessing that Isaiah
            promises is that if we delight in the Sabbath (which is just a blessing
            itself), then we will have all the beautiful promises of verse 14 poured
            upon us!
          - In order to enjoy the sabbath, my perspective needs to change. The child in
            me thinks that there are so many things that I can't do on the Sabbath, but
            the disciple of the Lord knows that the sabbath is a day for me to rest my
            hands and heal the wounds of the week.
