Genesis 7
21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and of
cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon
the earth, and every man:

22 All in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was in the
dry land, died.

23 And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of
the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the
fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah
only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.


Genesis 8
11 And the dove came in to him in the evening; and, lo, in her mouth was
an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that the waters were abated
from off the earth.


      These verses help us understand why Joseph Smith named Doctrine and Covenants
      section 88 the "Olive Leaf".

      On December 25 1832, Joseph Smith received section 87, the prophecy on war.
      This foretells great calamities, war being poured out on all nations, bloodshed,
      and the chastening hand of God.

      2 days later, Joseph receives section 88. After this revelation of the great
      trials and hardships coming, the beautiful and pure doctrines of section 88 are
      a message of hope and reassurance that God will not forget his people.

Doctrine and Covenants 88
2 Behold, this is pleasing unto your Lord, and the angels rejoice over
you; the alms of your prayers have come up into the ears of the Lord
of Sabaoth, and are recorded in the book of the names of the
sanctified, even them of the celestial world.


      - Section 87 was given on christmas day, 2 days before section 88, after the nullification crisis arose after South Carolina rejected the tarrifs of the federal government.
      - https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/manual/revelations-in-context/peace-and-war?lang=eng


President Joseph Fielding Smith stated that Doctrine and Covenants 88 was “one of the greatest revelations ever given to man” (Doctrines of Salvation, comp. Bruce R. McConkie, 3 vols. [1954–56] 3:181).

63 Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently
and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall
be opened unto you.



125 And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as
with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace.

The word friend is used 4 times in Section 88, joy twice, love thrice, and glory 21 times.
