Doctrine and Covenants 88
32 And they who remain shall also be quickened; nevertheless, they shall
return again to their own place, to enjoy that which they are willing
to receive, because they were not willing to enjoy that which they
might have received.

      - I love the phrase "to enjoy that which they are willing to receive". How much do you want? God will give you everything that you are willing to receive, he will make you like Him. But only if you want it. Only if you will open your heart and receive it.

2 Nephi 9
40 O, my beloved brethren, give ear to my words. Remember the greatness
of the Holy One of Israel. Do not say that I have spoken hard things
against you; for if ye do, ye will revile against the truth; for I
have spoken the words of your Maker. I know that the words of truth
are hard against all uncleanness; but the righteous fear them not, for
they love the truth and are not shaken.

      - Again, how much will you receive? It seems hard, but why is it hard? Only because the words of God point out your weakness and your flaws.
      - Change is scary, and that is what God asks of you, to change. He wants to make you beautiful, to fill you with power and glory and righteousness. But you'll need to give up some things along the way. Are you willing?

John 8
32 And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
...
40 But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which
I have heard of God: this did not Abraham.
...
43 Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye cannot hear my
word.
...
45 And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not.
46 Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye
not believe me?
47 He that is of God heareth God's words: ye therefore hear them not,
because ye are not of God.

      - Jesus was laying it out there, as plainly as he could. You can hear the resistance and the pride and the fear of change in the Sadducees words.
      - Those who are of God hear God's words. Use this as a measure of your discipleship and worthiness.

1 Nephi 17
45 Ye are swift to do iniquity but slow to remember the Lord your God. Ye
have seen an angel, and he spake unto you; yea, ye have heard his
voice from time to time; and he hath spoken unto you in a still small
voice, but ye were past feeling, that ye could not feel his words;
wherefore, he has spoken unto you like unto the voice of thunder,
which did cause the earth to shake as if it were to divide asunder.


Doctrine and Covenants 88
40 For intelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; wisdom receiveth wisdom;
truth embraceth truth; virtue loveth virtue; light cleaveth unto
light; mercy hath compassion on mercy and claimeth her own; justice
continueth its course and claimeth its own; judgment goeth before the
face of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth
all things.
